# The process of designing and building a poker app in python

## Week 1
### Overall Design
The first thing to think about was the data representation. We have cards, decks, players, and tables (individual games) as the main data types. I initially considered representing cards as tuples of (rank,suit) and decks as lists of tuples and hands as lists of tuples, but this seemed ugly and the slight performance benefit over objects was not a concern. The larger goal of readability, clean design, and understandability was more important. So I settled on a Card object to hold the rank, suit, and a string lookup for convenient debugging to print what the card was. I also opted to keep the Deck as an object wrapper for the list of Cards, so as to have convenience methods for shuffling and dealing a random card while appropriately changing the state of the deck. The Player object should represent the state of a player at a table, and as such should inclue what their name is, their current hand, their current stack size, their current bet (so as to be able to calculate what they need to add to call a re-raise), and their last action as a string for convenient printing to the GUI to indicate to the rest of the table. The Table object provides most of the necessary information to run the game, and after some consideration I decided it should actually also hold the business logic to run the game itself. Although I considered keeping the engine conceptually seperate as its own module, since Poker is a game of minimal computation during the majority of the game (majority of computation would be at showdown to determine hand strength, or if I wanted to dynamically assess hand strength as the hand progressed which is out of the current scope), most of the engine's job would be to gather data from the other models and essentially pass it to the table, which seemed to have minimal benefit over having the table query the objects it owns and update its own state. 

Now that the design was settled, the next thing to figure out was program flow. This seemed straightforward, but had a lot of parts, so I stubbed out methods for most of the major parts (pre-deal, pre-flop, each round of betting, post flop, main run loop, resetting state of table/players for each hand, etc.). This is where week 1 ended.

## Week 2

Turns out side pots are actually really hard, so I'm going to gloss over that for now and just say everything goes into the main pot, and best hand wins and gets the main pot.